README.md, before:

# NEPS

[![Linting rules](https://img.shields.io/badge/standard-rules-brightgreen)](https://standardjs.com)
[![Code formatting](https://img.shields.io/badge/prettier-formatted-ff69b4)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) Scaffolder for RESTful API servers.

With heavily borrowed ideas from [node-express-boilerplate](https://github.com/hagopj13/node-express-boilerplate).

## Usage

Clone the repo and remove the git database folder:

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/fernandocanizo/neps.git your-brand-new-project
cd your-brand-new-project
rm -rf .git
```

Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

Set environment variables:

```bash
cp example.env .env
```

Edit `.env` and configure accordingly to your project.

## Features

- [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/) configuration
- Code formatting with [Prettier](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
- [Standard](https://standardjs.com/) linted
- [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) git hooks to run checkers when
  needed

Commit message:

Add initial migrations with DB setup and some docs
NEPS would not go too deep into database definition, however most
services would require some user management, so this provides those
basics.

README.md, after:

# NEPS

[![Linting rules](https://img.shields.io/badge/standard-rules-brightgreen)](https://standardjs.com)
[![Code formatting](https://img.shields.io/badge/prettier-formatted-ff69b4)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) Scaffolder for RESTful API servers.

With heavily borrowed ideas from [node-express-boilerplate](https://github.com/hagopj13/node-express-boilerplate).

## Usage

### Clone repository

Clone the repository and remove the git database folder:

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/fernandocanizo/neps.git your-brand-new-project
cd your-brand-new-project
rm -rf .git
```

Install dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

### Create role and database and user

Precise instructions on how to create a role and database are out of the scope
of this documentation, but here's a quick example using defaults:

```bash
sudo su
su postgres
createuser -i neps
exit
exit
psql -U neps postgres
postgres=> create database neps;
exit
```

### Configure and set up database

Configure database connection settings by editing `.postgratorrc.json`
accordingly, then run:

```bash
npx postgrator
```

That will create basic tables. Of course you can add more migrations before
running `postgrator`.

## Features

- [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/) configuration
- Code formatting with [Prettier](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
- [Standard](https://standardjs.com/) linted
- [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) git hooks to run checkers when
  needed
- [Postgrator-cli](https://github.com/MattiLehtinen/postgrator-cli) for
  database migrations
